# Transonic flow around a NACA0012 profile at a 3&deg; angle

**Author:** [Eduard Gómez](https://github.com/EduardGomezEscandell)

**Kratos version:** 9.1

**Source files:** [Transonic flow around a NACA0012 profile at a 3&deg; angle](https://github.com/KratosMultiphysics/Examples/tree/master/fluid_dynamics/validation/compressible_naca_0012_Ma_0.8_aoa_3/source)

## Case Specification
This is a 2D simulation of a NACA0012 profile under transonic flow conditions (Ma = 0.8) with angle of attack of 3&deg;.

The problem geometry is enclosed by a symmetric pair of circular segments, with 12.5 meter radii. Their centers are at x=-7.5 and x=7.5, with the Y-axis acting as the cord. For the sake of clarity, this means its bounding box is {x,y | x ∈ [-5,5], y ∈ [-10,10]}. The front tip of the unit length NACA0012 profile is located at the (0.0,0.0)m coordinates.

The normal component of the momentum is set to zero in the top, bottom, and aerofoil walls. The momentum is also set to zero in the trailing edge of the NACA0012 profile. According to the transonic nature of the flow, the momentum, density and energy are fixed in the semicilinder inlet region to 266.67 _Kg/m<sup>2</sup>s_, 1 _Kg/m<sup>3</sup>_ and 232.7 _kJ_. A free stream condition is considered in the outlet.

Concerning the material, a Newtonian fluid with the characteristic parameters listed below is used.
* Dynamic viscosity (&mu;): 2E-05 _Kg/ms_
* Thermal conductivity (&kappa;): 0.024 _J/sKm_
* Specific heat (_c<sub>p</sub>_): 722.14 _J/KgK_
* Heat capacity ratio (&gamma;): 1.4

An adaptive time step strategy based on the CFL and Fourier numbers is used.

## Results
The problem is solved with a Variational Multi-Scale stabilized compressible Navier-Stokes formulation written in conservative variables (1).  An explicit third order otal-variational-diminishing Runge-Kutta explicit strategy is used for the time discretization, see (2) for more details. The solution from the resolution of a compressible potential flow problem is used as initial condition.

The computational domain is meshed with 56k linear triangular elements.

TODO: Screenshots

## More information
The domain was generated by the [GiD-NACA open-source tool](https://github.com/EduardGomezEscandell/GiD-NACA).

The project parameters are modified by the script, in order to allow for quickly changing settings of the problem. These can be changed in lines 143-146 of `MainKratos.py`:
```python
    density = 1.0
    mach = 0.8
    angle = 3.0
    temperature = 293
```


## References
(1) Bayona Roa, C.A., Baiges, J. and Codina, R. (2016), Variational multi-scale finite element approximation of the compressible Navier-Stokes equations, International Journal of Numerical Methods for Heat & Fluid Flow, Vol. 26 No. 3/4, pp. 1240-1271. [https://doi.org/10.1108/HFF-11-2015-0483 ](https://doi.org/10.1108/HFF-11-2015-0483 )

(2) Fernandez, P., Nguyen, C., & Peraire, J. (2018), A physics-based shock capturing method for unsteady laminar and turbulent flows. In 2018 AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting (p. 0062). [https://doi.org/10.2514/6.2018-0062](https://doi.org/10.2514/6.2018-0062)
